As a result of such activity on the development of exercises, you should get a matrix of assessment.
Paying your attention to the slide that you see now,
when the entire list of those competencies that you have is presented, 8, 10, 12,
and the exercises that are available will be determined.
You will always be able to understand which competencies and which methods you have the opportunity to assess.
I would like to draw your attention to the slide where, as an example, the competence of working with clients is given,
and the methods of assessment that the company has in stock are listed.
This is from the filling of the assessment sheet by the 360-degree method,
and as we can see that instead of the subordinate, the client is participating here, assessing the employee.
This can be a written assessment of the knowledge of the assortment and the work technique,
work with clients, that is, an assessment of knowledge.
This is a business game that is developed based on the situation that took place.
And also this is a case that is offered to the participants to decide.
Again, someone else for this competence can offer some other methods.
Maybe there will be only two of them, maybe three, and they will be completely different.
In this case, we see a choice of a specific company.
When the staff understands that in order to assess the competence of working with our employees,
these methods are available.
So, we have assessed our employees.
We have laid out the requirements for the level of development or the profile of the position on our axes,
and then applied the current level of competence development of our employees.
We receive information for analysis, and we need to use this information.
How can we use it?
We can either make an individual plan and programs for each employee.
We determine which employees we will represent in the personnel reserve.
Speaking of the personnel reserve, it is important to understand that if we define a group for ourselves,
the group can be very large, or the positions can be different.
This does not mean that we have presented the whole group in the reserve for all positions.
Absolutely not.
We remember that in order to be listed in the personnel reserve and for subsequent development,
it is necessary to assess, or assess again, or impose the assessment that we have made,
but already to the level, to the profile of competence of the position under which we select the reserve.
This does not mean that everything is again, everything is from the beginning.
Because if we represent an employee in the reserve, in, say, a higher position,
then these are positions within the same group of positions.
Therefore, there will be the same corporate competencies, the same professional competencies.
The only thing that can be added is managerial competencies.
If the employee did not engage in management activities in the previous position,
so we can or plan to list those people whom we list in the personnel reserve.
We suggest that they go through another exercise,
within which we will observe the level of development of their management competencies for subsequent assessment.
The next one is the planning of the employee's career.
This is an opportunity that we have, and we can understand and give feedback to the employee
so that he understands what he can expect while working in our company.
This is the adjustment of compensation packages.
Here I also say, because the word adjustment is very soft,
this is by no means a change in compensation packages.
What does this mean?
I do not recommend you to change the labor payment system,
to increase the salary based on the results of the assessment of competencies.
Because we pay for the result, and competencies are still behavior.
We should not pay for the demonstrated behavior, no matter how it sounds.
It is clear that if the assessment of competencies is accompanied by the assessment of activity,
then it can be the next step.
In any case, be careful.
Remember that only for the results of the assessment of the assessment center,
compensation packages should not be changed easily.
There should be some other reason for this.
Let's talk about the use of competencies in the development of personnel.
We have done a lot of work, we have evaluated,
and we understand that there is a group of employees with a number of competencies,
which we need to improve.
We all together.
It is clear that they need to be improved.
But we, if we are a personnel service,
need to create an environment and provide the tools that will help employees do this.
First of all, we develop special training programs,
whether individual or group, for the development of competencies.
We can do this within our training centers or within the company,
or we can attract external partners to achieve these goals.
There are many methods of training, they are different.
They are different in quality, they are different in duration, they are different in cost.
Again, from these methods, we choose those that are acceptable for the development of specific competencies,
specific employees in our companies.
Thus, we will have a so-called development action menu,
or individual development plans.
When we have certain methods for the development of a certain competence.
Remember, we had an assessment matrix there.
How can we assess competencies?
The same thing here.
The matrix of development actions.
How can we develop this competence?
What methods do we have?
The methods can be completely different.
It can be self-learning, it can be mentorship,
as one of the most effective methods.
It can be participation in development projects,
training and seminar.
It can be participation or even holding some master classes,
most likely within the company.
It's not that we send an employee to teach someone,
but we say that if he has some professional knowledge,
and on the other hand, he needs to develop the competence related to communication,
work, let's say, a speech in front of an audience, and so on,
then why not share his knowledge in this format?
It can be a development center.
We talked about assessment centers.
There is also a concept of a development center.
The algorithm of the assessment is similar,
but the goal is different.
The goal is not to assess, but to train.
When an employee performs an exercise,
he immediately receives feedback.
Then, within the framework of the development center,
he receives another exercise and an opportunity to demonstrate and improve his skills.
The goal is not just to collect some information,
but to let the employee try to change his behavior
taking into account the feedback he received from the observers.
It is important to remember that employees with high grades,
that is, with a high level of competence development,
regardless of their position,
they can and should perform as functional coaches and mentors.
Moreover, it is a great advantage for the company
when the most valuable knowledge can be passed from one employee to another.
It is also a plus for the employee, a kind of advantage,
because it is connected with his inner motivation,
including the fact that he becomes an internal or functional coach.
Not to mention that if the company has a mentor stimulation system,
it will always be an additional benefit.
Speaking of competence development,
we cannot help but talk about the competencies that are difficult to develop.
Some people call them undeveloped competencies,
but this name probably has a certain predisposition,
because if we call it competence,
we must accept that what has grown has grown.
What level of competence development does the employee have?
We should always work with this.
Of course, there is a part of irony in this,
because undeveloped competencies are those competencies,
within which it is quite difficult to change a person's behavior.
Nevertheless, we must understand whether such competencies exist in our model.
Loyalty.
How much can it be? How will we evaluate it?
How will we develop it?
How can we tell a person to be loyal if we want him to behave this way?
It's not that simple.
Such competencies can be different.
For example, the competence of creativity.
Competencies are not often found.
It can be found in small creative organizations,
or it can be a professional competence of a group of employees.
Nevertheless, at the stage of the formulation of competencies,
answering the question of how we can analyze
and whether we can develop this competence in the future,
we should think about it.
And, consequently, understand that it is one of such competencies.
What tools do we have?
The first is to analyze and select people at the entrance to the company for these competencies.
That is, not to miss people who do not have the level that we need,
if this competence is a priority.
Also, develop a system of stimulation.
If we use not only development tools,
but also tools from another field,
that is, the behavior that we consider necessary.
And also, try to determine the methods that may be.
Among them there may be coaching,
among which there must be feedback.
If a person is interested in developing this competence,
he has an inner desire,
then this method will be very effective,
because he will receive feedback from a colleague,
from a manager, or from some internal expert.
And he will change and consciously change his activity in the direction that is necessary.
A few words about the personnel reserve,
which we have already talked about today.
First of all, it is necessary to determine for ourselves
what we understand as a personnel reserve.
Historically, we understand the personnel reserve as a reserve for a position,
for any of the positions.
It can be either a management reserve,
that is, when specialists are formed,
reservists are formed for the position of a manager,
or from the manager of the lower link,
a reserve is formed for the position of a higher level manager.
Nevertheless, there is a concept that has become part of our language today,
which we read a lot in literature.
It is the management of talents.
When we form the so-called talent pool,
what is it about?
Is there any difference?
Most often, those companies that adhere to this principle
and say that we are not just forming a reserve for a certain position.
No, we select talented specialists from different fields.
We evaluate them by defining a talent for ourselves in a certain way,
and most often as a potential for development.
We already understand that this is a certain set of competencies.
We define these people for ourselves
in order to pay more attention to them during our work with the staff
and understand that this is our future
and that it is more efficient for us to invest in this particular category of employees.
In this case, the talent pool is not for a specific position.
There is no profile of the competence of the chief engineer,
the reserve for which we are forming.
There is a certain scope for the future,
or a certain profile of success, as some companies call it.
Thus, it is necessary to define the direction in which we work.
Either we have a reserve for a position,
or for a managerial position,
or for a position of a specialist, a rare specialist,
who is almost not on the market.
Let's say a technologist in our tricky production.
And we grow all technologists on our own.
Or, once again, a talent pool.
In any case, we understand that we select candidates
for the pool and the reserve based on the results of evaluation events.
We create individual development plans.
Only if we understand what to include in the development plan,
because there is a profile of the position,
in the reserve for which they are included,
and we understand, comparing with their current profile,
what competencies need to be developed.
As for the talent pool,
we are talking about a certain profile of success.
When we set a certain level,
maybe we draw profiles of a young manager,
or we define for ourselves in some other way.
And we start from this profile,
which we have defined for ourselves.
For reservists, individual plans are made.
And it is very important that people,
who are listed in the reserve or in the talent pool,
are not just listed once,
but then in a year, two or three,
to see what happened to them.
These are people,
who we invest more money in,
from the calculation of one employee,
than in other employees.
Therefore, we need to constantly monitor
the effectiveness of our investments.
What does it mean?
This is the level of reserve preparation.
Six months have passed.
We gave recommendations to employees.
Did any change happen or not?
This is something that must be monitored.
There are two aspects.
The first one is very slow and fast reserve preparation.
If the reserve is medium-term,
for example, for three years,
and we prepared it for a year,
but in a year we do not need
any specialist in this area,
what can happen?
Everything can turn out great.
The employee will say thank you,
will spread his wings
and will continue his career in another organization.
Therefore, you must feel this balance,
initially programming the reserve period,
for which we are preparing.
The benefits that the organization gets
when forming and developing the personnel reserve
cannot be overestimated.
First of all,
we must understand
that this is a systematic and targeted development
of a certain group of employees.
That is, money is invested in the best.
As we assume,
we do everything to maximize
the return on these investments.
The reservists themselves understand
what the company expects from them
if they have individual plans
or plans for future careers.
Thus, the best of them
purposefully strive to meet these expectations.
The second aspect is
that the company is not a company
that is based on expectations.
Further, the corporate culture of the company
is gradually changing.
It becomes oriented to personal development,
to initiative, to creativity.
That is, it appears in the hands of
linear managers and staff.
A real tool for working with employees
appears,
increasing their loyalty
and involvement in business.
It can also be said
that there is a transition
of personnel service
to a different quality level of development.
Thus, both the organization
and the personnel service
as a guide and an agent
of such changes win.
Let's pay attention
to the next slide,
where the cycle of corporate training
or training system is presented.
And again, we will touch
on this issue
in application of our topic today,
namely, the competence model.
Very often,
HR has a task
to develop
a training system.
The first step
that needs to be taken
is to analyze the needs
of the employees in the training.
There are many methods
of analysis of needs.
One of them
is the competence assessment.
Therefore, you often see
HR and personnel service
are engaged in competence assessment.
We need to develop
competence models.
Then they either start
the big way
we are talking about today
or they use other methods.
In fact, the most valid
and objective is
the competence assessment.
If we have these competences,
we take this step very easily.
Because, according to the dogma
of assessment events,
all the needs in the training
become clear
and we can work with them.
The next element of the system
is the training planning.
When we understand
who, how and in what period we are learning.
The next step is the development of programs.
How we will develop
competence.
After that, it is the training.
That is, the application of the methods
we have listed.
And the most important thing is the effectiveness assessment.
The effectiveness assessment
is the final element
of the corporate training system.
Look,
the assessment of efficiency and competence.
What is their relationship?
Let's remember
what methods we have for the assessment of
the effectiveness of training.
When it comes to the assessment of the effectiveness of training,
we most often remember the name
of Donald Kirkpatrick,
an American specialist,
who 30 years ago proposed
the technology of assessment of the effectiveness of training.
Now in the literature we know it as the Kirkpatrick model
or the four-level model.
What is its essence? Let's remember.
In general, when it comes to the assessment
of the effectiveness of training
or some training program,
we always have to ask ourselves
what we assess.
The training program itself,
which lasted 16 hours,
we assess it
or maybe we assess the coach who conducted it.
Or maybe we assess the participants.
Or we assess the whole process.
We always have such a question.
After all,
our task is not to assess the program itself,
but to assess the changes
that the training
led to,
changes in the work of the participants.
Because it was the changes
that should have led
to the goal for which
the training program was conceived.
Thus,
Kirkpatrick proposed
to do the following.
He said that we should first assess
the reaction of the students,
that is, the emotions.
After the seminar,
let's ask how the participants felt.
Did they like the program?
Did they like the coach?
Was it convenient to use the distribution materials?
Was it hot? Was it cold?
Was it time to feed them lunch?
And so on.
In general, it is a kind of assessment of emotions,
an assessment of the perception of how we felt there.
By making an analogy
with sports,
we can listen to a lecture
of an outstanding football coach,
absolutely not being a football player.
And we can come to delight and say
that it was great,
it was so interesting.
We spent two or three hours
with such a positive,
that it was just great.
Class, we say,
is an emotion.
Some time passes,
and we need to understand
what is left of our football lecture.
Do we remember,
do we know the basic rules?
Or is there just some kind of inner feeling
about a well-spent time?
Only if the football lecture
can be like this,
then it should not be like this with professional training.
Therefore, our next task is to understand
what knowledge is left in the head of the participants.
If we have taught
operators of the call center
to work effectively,
we need to understand.
We did not come here
with the feeling
that the class had a great time.
This was not the goal.
The goal was the second level, knowledge.
What knowledge is left in their heads?
The next level is that there is little knowledge.
We can know how to play football,
but none of us will ever
go out on the field.
The same can be known
how to work with objections.
And the sales manager
may be hard to breathe
and may be very angry.
But knowledge does not always
imply skill.
We know how to do it.
The question is whether we do it.
A specialist who has been working with people for 30 years
asks us whether it works.
Therefore, the next level is the level of behavior.
How much behavior has changed
after the training
that was conducted.
What is behavior, colleagues?
It is competence.
Therefore, having reached this level,
we can say that
this is the most fixed change
in the development of competence
that we can analyze.
Has there been a change?
No.
Thus, it is very easy for those companies
whose competence model exists
to reach the third level of efficiency
and behavior.
It is not very easy,
but it is easier than for other colleagues.
Because there are all the tools.
We have developed,
we have conducted an assessment center,
we have evaluated, we have seen
what was at the entrance.
Therefore, having conducted repeated procedures
after a while, we will be able to analyze
what will happen next, whether there are changes.
Can these changes be attributed
to the training program that we conducted?
The next point
for our picture
to be completed
is the fourth level of efficiency,
what results,
business results
have led to new behavior.
Our call center operators,
whom we trained,
who liked everything,
remembered and began to serve the client better.
What did this lead to?
This led to the fact that they began to serve
more clients per hour,
that clients became more satisfied
with the work of our call center.
This is a business result
that we record
and which is a consequence
of the development of competence
To conclude the topic
of competence in the development of staff,
it is necessary to recall
what benefits our company gets.
In those companies
where the staff
uses competence
when forming a system of training
and development of employees,
the employees themselves clearly begin to understand
what competencies are necessary for their career growth.
They understand what they need to do
to make their work
evaluated positively.
What are the results
and what is the required behavior?
The managers
have a clear idea
of what their employees were trained for.
They also clearly understand
what they can demand from employees.
The staff service
generally receives a good tool
to assess the effectiveness
of the funds and investments
that are invested in training.
Let's talk about
the use of competence
in the development of staff.
When we conduct an interview with an employee,
our task is to assess
the development of his competence
in 40 minutes,
an hour, or an hour and a half
in accordance with the position
he is in.
We have a limited time.
We did not know anything about the employee before.
There is no prehistory of our relations.
Therefore, the assessment
should be as accurate as possible.
We must make every effort
to attract employees
who will not stay
in our company.
These are direct costs
that our company is incurring.
The selection of employees
is the most accurate
if we assess them
by competence.
There are two main methods
that we use.
The first is an interview by competence.
The second is the assessment centers
that we have already talked about.
In this case,
the assessment centers will be individual.
The advantage of an interview
by competence is
that our questions
will be based on the analysis of the work
and will be aimed at identifying
the skills required
for the work
our candidate is applying for.
The next advantage is
that the information received
during the interview
will be easier to structure
and to assess.
We can easily assign
the level of development
demonstrated by the employee
and the information we will gather
during the interview
to the competence
that is in his or her profile.
Unfortunately,
there are disadvantages.
The first one is the long duration
of the interview.
In this case,
it is important to use
a method of pair comparison.
Before preparing
for the interview
and selecting the candidates
for a certain position,
we will identify the critical competencies
together with the supervisor.
What is the priority?
What competencies should be there?
In the absence of these competencies,
we can close our eyes
and understand that we will simply
teach this person.
Sometimes, when I select a sales manager,
I don't need a person
to know the product,
I need him to sell well.
Thus, this competence
is more important.
Another person says that
he needs to know the product
because it is specific,
and I will teach him to sell it.
Different situations, different supervisors
and, thus,
maybe in something similar
competencies,
critical or priority competencies
will be absolutely different
and opposite in these two cases.
We talked about the matrix of assessment,
we talked about the matrix
of developing actions.
We also need to have a matrix of questions,
that is, the questions
that we will use
to identify the competencies
that we need.
The difficulty is that
the candidate can exaggerate a little.
Perhaps he will not tell
what he did himself,
how someone did it,
giving it as if it were his own projects.
Therefore, we must initially prepare,
come up with those questions,
maybe formulate those small tasks,
the answers to which
will immediately allow us to determine
whether the candidate says
what he knows,
or he tries to improvise right away,
because he has never done this before.
The easiest way
is to formulate questions
aimed at identifying
professional competencies.
For example, we will ask the sales manager
to give as many solutions
as possible for the situation
when the client requires a discount
that he cannot give.
Regardless of the product,
regardless of the specificity of the company's activities,
either the person knows how to do it
and understands the options
that he has,
or it becomes difficult for him
because he has never worked before
and has always solved
the situation with the client
by his manager.
It is more difficult to talk
about management competencies
and corporate competencies.
That is why it is necessary to ask
situational questions,
to propose various situations,
to reveal how a person would behave
in this situation,
and how he behaved
when these situations
occurred during his previous work.
Thus, listening to the answers
to these questions,
we get a set of positive
and negative indicators
applicable to the competencies
that we analyze.
This will allow us
to analyze the notes
that we have left
and make a preliminary conclusion
about the development
of the competencies
of the candidate.
For example,
evaluating the competence
of the result orientation,
we can ask the candidate
what professional goals
he sets for himself for the next year,
how ambitious these goals are for him,
what difficulties he can foresee
in achieving these goals,
and what can prevent him
from fulfilling his plans.
Thus, listening to his answers
and thinking,
we get a list
of positive indicators.
We can say that this person
sets goals for himself,
he plans a career for the long term.
These goals may not be
professional goals,
but they may be personal.
Or we get a list
of negative indicators.
When we say that
we understand that
it is clear from the examples
that a person has no goals
or that he cannot set them,
setting some goals
for his desire,
we get some information
for analysis.
When we analyze
either a list of negative indicators
or a list of positive indicators,
we understand
and we can evaluate
the level of competence development
of the competence
that we have analyzed,
the result orientation
of this candidate.
Then we compare it
to the position.
We evaluate
the level of competence
that this person needs
to be oriented.
Then we understand
whether this competence
was named as a priority.
Thus, we get a tool
for comparing different candidates.
To conclude the topic
of competence models,
I will repeat
that the most profitable
are those companies
where competence model
is a core in the management system
and all functions
are integrated
with each other.
Thus, a company
can become more flexible,
more mobile and better react
to changes in the environment.
Because, again,
if we review competence
after some time,
we see that all our HR policies
will be adapted
to the changes
that occur
if competence is a key tool.
It is often heard
that competence exists,
but it does not work.
When you start to think
why they do not work,
the reasons for this
are, most likely,
resistance from the management
employees
or the fact that they
simply ignore competence.
Why does it happen?
There may be a number of reasons
why competence does not work.
Let's think
what it is.
The first reason
why competence does not work
is the unreasonable reason
of their development and implementation.
When a company developed competence
not because it is necessary,
perceiving it as a future
for management,
but because everyone does it.
I heard at a conference
that a competing company
has competence.
Why not make it ourselves?
They also have interesting competencies.
How do they suit us?
After some time
competence appears in the company.
It becomes clear
that there was no reason for it.
Why is competence not a good tool?
Why is it not a good tool?
The second reason
is that some mistakes
were made
during development.
Maybe the model is too complex?
Maybe we tried
to describe all the standards
of behavior that we have
and we got 20 competencies?
Maybe it is too simple?
There are only 4 of them
and employees do not understand
how their competencies
affect their work.
There are competencies,
but what are they?
I say, there can be 4 competencies
if we only define corporate
or management.
Then it should be
brought to employees
in the right way.
The next one.
Maybe the model is poorly adapted
for business tasks
and it does not meet
the goals of the company.
Maybe it is borrowed
from the company.
Or maybe the competencies
are wrong.
When we talked about
whether the standards of behavior
that we describe
lead to high results
of the employees who have them.
The next one.
There could be mistakes
during the implementation.
The most common mistake
is that
the employees do not understand
the purpose of competencies.
But there are some.
The staff has assessed
and written something.
But the understanding
that it is how to behave
and work is not always there.
Maybe the management
does not consider them important.
It means that
there was not
the maximum attention
to involve
the managers in the process.
It is important
that the managers feel like their own.
If they cannot participate
in all stages for some reason,
it is important to gather
the managers before
announcing and implementing.
To imagine, answer their questions,
listen to their comments,
make changes, talk again.
The managers should understand
that they also participated.
The size of the participation
is not integrated
into other management systems.
What does it mean?
We developed competencies,
we assess them,
we select people
as we did 10 years ago.
There is no question
about competencies.
But why?
It is easy to develop profiles,
questions, exercises
and use them during selection.
Maybe we did not have time
to develop them.
There are many reasons.
Both during development
and implementation.
Why did we not develop competencies?
The next reason
why the model of competencies
may not work is
that it was developed
in a difficult time for the company.
What do we mean by difficult time?
It may be restructuring,
it may be a period
when the company
is facing financial difficulties.
It may be another aspect.
There are no financial difficulties.
But there are many significant changes
in the company.
Maybe the shareholders
and management change.
There are other projects.
This project is lost
and it does not get the attention it deserves.
The next reason
why competencies may not work
is that they are misused.
We are talking about cases
when competencies are used
as a strict list
of assessments.
There is no flexibility in their use,
which is unacceptable.
There are cases
when the behavior indicators
of certain companies are replaced
by the interpretation of the managers
of the assessors.
When the managers put into competencies
the meaning that is understandable
and close to the meaning
that was suggested
by the group of developers.
It is important to track this point
and to control it.
You should keep your hand on the pulse
and train the managers
and talk to them
and help them
in using this model.
What else should we pay attention to
when working with competencies?
First, competencies can intersect.
To check whether competencies
intersect,
you should determine
and assume
whether two employees
can work in the company
where one of the competencies
exists at a high level of development
and the other is absent.
And vice versa.
If we can answer the question
that competencies do not intersect,
if there are difficulties,
we say that competencies
have something in common.
There are two ways to do it.
Either we refuse one of the competencies
or we somehow
include one in the other.
Next, competencies can be very complicated.
When we try to determine
the maximum number
of behavior indicators for them
and thus
the competencies
become
incomprehensible to the perception.
Next,
it is contradictory competencies.
When competencies contain statements
that contradict each other.
For example,
describing the managers
and how the manager makes decisions
can be a behavior indicator
such as
the manager
makes decisions and takes responsibility.
And then,
when making decisions,
he consults with colleagues
and listens to the opinion of his subordinates.
It is clear that these are things
that contradict each other
and that is why competencies
need to be analyzed
otherwise it will be difficult to apply them.
The next point is
when competencies incorrectly
determine standards.
And the mistake is
that competencies are not divided
at the level
of qualified and unqualified performers.
That is, people who have
and do not have competencies
receive the same rating.
This is again about the formulation.
Therefore,
at the stage of formulating the list
you should ask yourself about this question.
The next point is when competencies
in their definition as indicators
contain not actions, but results.
Colleagues, once again.
Competencies are the characteristics
of the personality that we
can measure at the behavioral level.
Thus,
in defining competencies,
we should always answer
the question of what does.
But in no case
should we describe
some goals
and some results
that a person with this competency
should achieve.
We can say
that the model of competencies
is successfully implemented.
But first of all,
when it is constantly being improved.
When employees discuss competencies
that are necessary for their work.
That is, competencies
themselves are included in professional slang.
And employees operate them.
If you hear
when one employee
says to another,
but now you have not shown
the competence of working in a team,
it means that competencies
have entered your corporate slang.
It has become the language
in which you began to speak.
This is one of the indicators of success.
And of course, we can talk about success
when our managers
or departments of the middle
or higher level
perceive competencies as a tool
of staff management that helps
them in their daily work.
To summarize,
I will formulate several recommendations
about what is needed
for competencies to work.
First of all,
you need an objective reason
for creating and implementing competencies.
Second, you need to involve
line managers and employees
at all stages of work.
You need to organize a competent
internal PR project.
That is, to inform about how and why
it happens, what benefit
the company, the line manager,
and the employees get.
It is necessary to teach
how to use competencies
and how to implement them.
It is necessary to conduct a general
repetition of using competencies.
That is, when you evaluate
the developed competencies for the first time,
you need to be flexible
and test again
whether the competencies
you have formulated
are really those standards,
those priority behavior standards
that are necessary for your company.
And the last one is a mandatory
integration of competencies
into all policies and procedures
of the staff management service.
Colleagues, I wish you success
and patience in implementing
this project in your companies.
I believe that the joint time
we spent together was useful.